# Team Meetings

Sprints start on Wednesdays and end on Tuesdays. Therefore, sprint planning always occurs on the last day of the sprint and the day before the new sprint. Sprint Demos and Sprint Retrospectives also take place on the last day of the current sprint.

All recurring meetings can be found on this page. This page does not include adhoc pairing sessions, vendor-only meetings, tabletops, or other non-recurring meetings. The team is collaborative and often meets to solve problems together outside of typical scrum ceremonies.

A typical sprint schedule is described in the table below.


---
**Sprint Schedule**
| Sprint Day   | Meetings |
| -----------  | ---- |
| Day 1 - Wed  | Dev Sync |
| Day 2 - Thu  | *No meetings*      |
| Day 3 - Fri  | Product Sync, Tech Sync     |
| Day 4 - Mon  | UX Sync    |
| Day 5 - Tue  | Backlog Refinement     |
| Day 6 - Wed  | Dev Sync     |
| Day 7 - Thu  | *No meetings*     |
| Day 8 - Fri  | Product Sync, Cross-Functional Product Sync, Tech Sync    |
| Day 9 - Mon  | UX Sync     |
| Day 10 - Tue | Backlog Refinement/Sprint Planning, Sprint Demo, Retro     |

---

## Meeting Norms 

- For all recurring team meetings and standups use Zoom.
- If you have background noise, mute your mic. 
- Try not to talk over others.  
- If you are creating a new meeting invite, please be explicit and include an goal/outcome and/or an agenda in the meeting invite. What do we hope to accomplish in that time? 
- Be open and receptive to others' ideas and contributions.
- No meetings on Thursdays as much as possible
- Cameras on in retros and team happy hours / Cameras optional, but encouraged, in other meetings. Please be mindful that some team members work better by reading non-verbal communication of other team members.
- If there are action items that come out of a meeting, document and follow-up.
- Meeting notes that pertain to the entire team should be stored on the [TANF Data Portal OneNote](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7Bcbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af%7D&action=edit&wd=target%28General.one%7C76fa641e-4d01-436b-a079-42ae19270071%2FGeneral%20Links%7C38eda373-ae66-41ed-9d2d-e7b010d5b312%2F%29).


## Recurring Meetings 

### Standup
- **Goal**: To inspect progress towards sprint goal and identify blockers
- **Attendees**: Core team 
- **Facilitator**: Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When**: Daily 12pm-12:15pm EST and asynchronously on Thursdays and every other Tuesday when the team has sprint ceremonies
- **Format**: Each team member gives quick update to answer these questions 
  - Facilitator shares their screen and pulls up assigned tickets for each team member in the current sprint. 
  - *What did you do since the last standup that advances the sprint goals?* 
  - *What are you doing today that advances the sprint goals?*
  - *Are you encountering any blockers?* 
  - If you can’t make Standup in real-time, please post a short async update to the [OFA TDP General Mattermost Channel](https://mattermost.goraft.tech/goraft/channels/guest-ofa-tdp-general)
  

### Backlog Refinement 
- **Goal:** To identify goals for next sprint and create issues to be discussed in Sprint Planning 
- **Attendees:** OFA PO, OFA Tech Lead, Raft PM, Raft Tech Lead, UX Team
- **Facilitator:** Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When:** Every Tuesday 11:00am-12:00pm EST / Combined with Sprint Planning every other Tuesday 10:30am-12pm EST
- **Format:** The product owner will collaborate with the leads to review the backlog, prioritize issues for the next sprint, and to make sure items are ready for discussion in the upcoming Sprint Planning session. By the end of the session, a set of issues should be selected, acceptance criteria outlined, questions for the team noted within the issue. This set of issues should be sent to the sprint board before Sprint Planning.   
 
### Sprint Planning 
- **Goal:** To define the work we’re committing to complete in the next two weeks 
- **Attendees:** Core team 
- **Facilitator:** Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When:** Every other Tuesday 10:30am-12pm EST (combined with Backlog Refinement) 
- **Format:** Product owner should come with priority issues prepared and ready to discuss with the rest of the team. Dev and UX leads should come with refined tickets and should be prepared with updates on the current issues. Work in progress should be assessed and the team should decide if work should continue into the new sprint.

### Sprint Demo Prep  
- **Goal:** To plan what will be demoed in Sprint Demo 
- **Attendees:** Raft Team
- **Facilitator:** Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When:**  Every other Wednesday 12:15pm-12:30pm EST 
- **Format:** The team will start by reviewing/updating the Sprint Board. By the end of the meeting, the team should decide what is ready to be demoed (and label it as “demo”), who will conduct the demo/s, and if special guests should be invited to attend. All demoed issues must be merged first. Facilitator will take note of what issues will be demoed and who will be presenting for each issue. OFA Product Owner and OFA Tech Lead will sign off on Raft's recommendation of issues to be demoed.  

### Sprint Demo 
- **Goal:** To inspect the work completed in the sprint and demo new work to team members or other stakeholders. The Sprint Demo is a more formal version of Sprint Review. The issues that are demoed have received product owner’s approval in the Sprint Demo Prep meeting.  
- **Attendees**: Core team, TANF Data team (Thomas, Yun, Kathleen), and other stakeholders by invitation.  
- **Facilitator:** Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When:** Every other Tuesday 1:15pm-1:45pm
- **Format:** This meeting is a formal version of Sprint Review with an emphasis on demonstrating work to stakeholders outside the product team. The product owner or her designee will demo new work and features to the attendees. How attendees give feedback on the demo needs to be determined. 
 
### Sprint Retro 
- **Goal:** To demonstrate the team's progress and work completed in the sprint to core team members and stakeholders. The sprint retrospective is also an opportunity for the team to evaluate actions that should be stopped, started, or continued in order to facilitate an environment of continuous improvement.
- **Attendees:** Core team  
- **Facilitator:** Raft PM/Scrum Master
- **When:** Every other Tuesday 3pm-4pm EST 
- **Format:** The team will work in a Mural board to discuss
  - *What should we start doing?* 
  - *What should we stop doing?* 
  - *What should we continue doing?*
  - *Shoutouts and appreciation to the team*
  - *Action items from last retro - did we follow through with our commitments?*
  - Whoever facilitates the retro is responsible for documenting commitments in GH issues or Team Charter as appropriate. Mural board links can be found [here](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc={cbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af}&action=edit&wd=target%28General.one%7C76fa641e-4d01-436b-a079-42ae19270071%2FGeneral%20Links%7C38eda373-ae66-41ed-9d2d-e7b010d5b312%2F%29&wdorigin=703). 

### UX Sync
* **Goal:** A weekly discussion between UX and Product for UX updates on research findings, spec, research strategy, or other pressing priorities. 
* **Attendees:** Raft UX Team, Raft PM/Scrum Master, OFA PO, OFA Tech Lead
* **Facilitator:** Raft Design Lead
* **When:** Every Monday 11am-12:00pm ET
* **Format:** The UX team will prepare an agenda and use this meeting as an opportunity to present the product team with research findings, spec, research strategy, or questions/comments about specific issue numbers. The agenda and notes can be found in the [Design Notebook](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7Bcbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af%7D&action=edit&wd=target%28Design.one%7Cdbe726f5-a7de-47ea-9b06-762171b1b037%2FUX%20Syncs%20notes%7Cf807fbc2-85f3-478d-a006-83fac1fab7c8%2F%29&wdorigin=703) within the TDP OneNote.

### Dev Sync
* **Goal:** A weekly discussion between the Dev Team and the OFA Tech Lead to discuss issues, ask questions of each other, and collaborate.
* **Attendees:** Raft Dev Team, OFA Tech Lead, Raft PM/Scrum Master
* **Facilitator(s):** OFA Tech Lead and Raft Tech Lead
* **When:** Every Wednesday 2:30pm-3:30pm ET
* **Format:** OFA and/or Raft Tech Lead will prepare an agenda and team will discuss issues. Notes kept [here](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/0d820ecd-def2-4297-adad-78056cde7c78/_djb2_msteams_prefix_386608167?context=%7B%22subEntityId%22%3Anull%2C%22channelId%22%3A%2219%3A96fae73b37194050a5fb671ddf2380e3%40thread.skype%22%7D&groupId=41f194a6-c1d3-4680-933e-c8ee7d17e287&tenantId=d58addea-5053-4a80-8499-ba4d944910df).

### Product Sync
* **Goal:** A weekly sync between Raft and OFA Product Management to discuss project roadmap, progress, and other team issues
* **Attendees:** Raft PM/Scrum Master, OFA PO, OFA Tech Lead
* **Facilitator:** OFA PO
* **When:** Every Friday 11am-12pm ET
* **Format:** Agenda is kept in _MS Teams Project Management channel files_ :lock: and any meeting participant can add agenda items prior to meeting. Notes and action items are kept here as well. Raft and OFA Product Team use this time as a weekly discussion and debrief.

### Cross-Functional Product Sync
* **Goal:** A biweekly sync between Raft, OFA Product Management, tech leads, and UX lead to discuss project roadmap, progress, and other team issues
* **Attendees:** OFA PO, OFA Tech Lead, Raft PM/Scrum Master, Raft Tech Lead, Raft UX lead
* **Facilitator:** OFA PO
* **When:** Every other Friday 10am-11am ET
* **Format:** A link to the meeting [agenda](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/:o:/r/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/SiteAssets/TANF%20Data%20Portal%20(OFA)%20Notebook?d=wcbce2e7517b24e70b42260d034fcd4af&csf=1&web=1&e=1mTgNd) (in TDP OneNote) is included in the meeting invite. All attendees are invited to add to the agenda prior to the meeting. Notes and action items will be captured within the meeting agenda link.

### Tech Lead Sync
* **Goal:** Weekly sync between tech lead to discuss dev team velocity and dev/devops tickets (issues and/or PRs)
* **Attendees:** Raft Tech Lead, OFA Tech Lead
* **Facilitator:** Co-facilitated by Raft Tech Lead and OFA Tech Lead
* **When:** Every Friday at 2p ET
* **Format:** Agenda is kept in _MS Teams Tech Sync OneNote_ :lock: and any meeting participant can add agenda items prior to meeting. Notes and action items are kept here as well. 

### Integrated Project Team (IPT) with OCIO
* **Goal:** This is a meeting for members of the Integrated Project Team (IPT) to check in on the development of the TDP. 
* **Attendees:** TANF Data team, Raft leads, ACF IPT members (OCIO security, governance, accessibility)
* **Facilitator:** OFA PO
* **When:** Every 4 weeks on Wednesday 12:30-1pm ET
* **Format:** The OFA and Raft Teams will prepare and send an agenda in advance and use this opportunity to update the OFA IPT team on current progress with the TDP project, especially as it relates to features that impact the ATO documentation. This meeting is also an opportunity for the IPT to ask questions to the TDP team and vice versa. Notes are stored in the [TDP OneNote Compliance Notebook](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc={cbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af}&action=edit&wd=target%28Compliance.one%7Cd9b65ab8-bf29-476a-a652-d003714e50a4%2FIntegrated%20Project%20Team%7Ccf116bf0-9c5b-4cd5-90c7-7703e843b485%2F%29&wdorigin=703).