# Meeting Norms 

- For all recurring team meetings and standups use Zoom.
- If you have background noise, mute your mic. 
- Try not to talk over others.  
- If you are creating a new meeting invite, please be explicit and include an goal/outcome and/or an agenda in the meeting invite. What do we hope to accomplish in that time? 
- Be open and receptive to others' ideas and contributions.
- No meetings on Thursdays as much as possible
- Cameras on in retros and team happy hours / Cameras optional, but encouraged, in other meetings. Please be mindful that some team members work better by reading non-verbal communication of other team members.
- If there are action items that come out of a meeting, document and follow-up.
- Meeting notes should be stored in a [shared location](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc=%7Bcbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af%7D&action=edit&wd=target%28General.one%7C76fa641e-4d01-436b-a079-42ae19270071%2FGeneral%20Links%7C38eda373-ae66-41ed-9d2d-e7b010d5b312%2F%29).


# Recurring Meetings 

## Standup 
- Goal: To inspect progress towards sprint goal and identify blockers
- Attendees: Core team 
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When: Daily 12pm-12:15pm EST and asynchronously on Thursdays and every other Tuesday when the team has sprint ceremonies
- Format: Each team member gives quick update to answer these questions 
  - Facilitator shares their screen and pulls up assigned tickets for each team member in the current sprint. 
  - *What did you do since the last standup that advances the sprint goals?* 
  - *What are you doing today that advances the sprint goals?*
  - *Are you encountering any blockers?* 
  - If you can’t make Standup in real-time, please post a short async update to the [OFA TDP General Mattermost Channel](https://mattermost.goraft.tech/goraft/channels/guest-ofa-tdp-general)
  

## Backlog Refinement 
- Goal: To identify goals for next sprint and create issues to be discussed in Sprint Planning 
- Attendees: Lauren, Alex, Valerie, Andrew, John, Miles, Sreedevi
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When: Every Tuesday 11:00am-12:00pm EST / Combined with Sprint Planning every other Tuesday 10:30am-12pm EST
- Format: The product owner will collaborate with the leads to review the backlog, prioritize issues for the next sprint, and to make sure items are ready for discussion in the upcoming Sprint Planning session. By the end of the session, a set of issues should be selected, acceptance criteria outlined, questions for the team noted within the issue. This set of issues should be sent to the sprint board before Sprint Planning.   
 
## Sprint Planning 
- Goal: To define the work we’re committing to complete in the next two weeks 
- Attendees: Core team 
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When: Every other Tuesday 10:30am-12pm EST (combined with Backlog Refinement) 
- Format: Product owner should come with priority issues prepared and ready to discuss with the rest of the team. Dev and UX leads should come with refined tickets and should be prepared with updates on the current issues. Work in progress should be assessed and the team should decide if work should continue into the new sprint.

## Sprint Demo Prep  
- Goal: To plan what will be demoed in Sprint Demo 
- Attendees: Raft Team
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When:  Every other Wednesday 12:15pm-12:30pm EST 
- Format: The team will start by reviewing/updating the Sprint Board. By the end of the meeting, the team should decide what is ready to be demoed (and label it as “demo”), who will conduct the demo/s, and if special guests should be invited to attend. All demoed issues must be merged first. Facilitator will take note of what issues will be demoed and who will be presenting for each issue. OFA Product Owner and OFA Tech Lead will sign off on Raft's recommendation of issues to be demoed.  

## Sprint Demo 
- Goal: To inspect the work completed in the sprint and demo new work to team members or other stakeholders. The Sprint Demo is a more formal version of Sprint Review. The issues that are demoed have received product owner’s approval in the Sprint Demo Prep meeting.  
- Attendees: Core team, Thomas, Yun, Kathleen, and other stakeholders by invitation.  
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When: Every other Tuesday 1:15pm-1:45pm
- Format: This meeting is a formal version of Sprint Review with an emphasis on demonstrating work to stakeholders outside the product team. The product owner or her designee will demo new work and features to the attendees. How attendees give feedback on the demo needs to be determined. 
 
## Sprint Retro 
- Goal: To demonstrate the team's progress and work completed in the sprint to core team members and stakeholders. The sprint retrospective is also an opportunity for the team to evaluate actions that should be stopped, started, or continued in order to facilitate an environment of continuous improvement.
- Attendees: Core team  
- Facilitator: Valerie
- When: Every other Tuesday 3pm-4pm EST 
- Format: The team will work in a Mural board to discuss
  - *What went well?* 
  - *What didn’t go well?* 
  - *What 2-4 commitments can we make in next sprint to improve?* 
  - Whoever facilitates the retro is responsible for documenting commitments in GH issues or Team Charter as appropriate. Mural board links can be found [here](https://hhsgov.sharepoint.com/sites/TANFDataPortalOFA/_layouts/15/Doc.aspx?sourcedoc={cbce2e75-17b2-4e70-b422-60d034fcd4af}&action=edit&wd=target%28General.one%7C76fa641e-4d01-436b-a079-42ae19270071%2FGeneral%20Links%7C38eda373-ae66-41ed-9d2d-e7b010d5b312%2F%29&wdorigin=703). 
 
